.. post:: May 12, 2017
    :tags: release, feature
    :author: Anthony

Release for May 12, 2017
========================

Yesterday, we rolled out improved webhook management for projects, and several
bug fixes around our upgrade to Sphinx 1.5.

Webhook management
------------------

We've been slowly making upgrades to our webhook management page. Projects that
set up new webhooks will see a list of webhooks that we have configured,
including HTTP exchanges that we encounter from each remote webhook.

Some of the other improvements to our webhook management include a `new generic
webhook endpoint <generic-webhook_>`_, the ability to create arbitrary webhooks,
and the ability to now re-establish webhooks on a per-provider basis.

You can play with the new features by selecting a project, opening the project
admin dashboard, and selecting **Integrations**. If your project is relatively
new, webhook integrations will be created for existing remote webhooks. If your
project has been configured for a long time, or you are using our old webhook
endpoints, such as ``http://readthedocs.org/github``, you won't notice anything
new on the integrations dashboard page. You can still manually create a webhook
and configure your repository to point to the new Read the Docs webhook
endpoint however.

.. _generic-webhook: http://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/webhooks.html#using-the-generic-api-integration

Bug fixes
---------

Following the release of Sphinx 1.5, we set this version as the default version
for Sphinx projects on Read the Docs. This in turn caused an issue with our
override of the Sphinx search mechanism. We currently override this to provide
our own search indexes, however the patch to this file was incompatible with
Sphinx 1.5.

Due to this incompatibility, if a search query did not return anything from our
indexes, but did match the Sphinx internal index, the links would have been
incorrect.

We are now patching this search mechanism regardless of which version of Sphinx
is used, and the broken links are no longer returned in the search results.

Problems?
---------

If you encounter any problems with any of the recent changes, feel free to open
up a bug report on our `issue tracker`_.

.. _issue tracker: https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/
